Explain use of pod os field (#35439)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2022-07-27-pod-os-field/index.md

# Identify Pod Operating System authoritatively during pod admission time
---
layout: blog
title: "Identifying pod operating system authoritatively during pod admission time"

> date: 2022-07-27

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: 2022-09-05
```
Also please rename the file to 2022-09-05-pod-os-field.md

slug: Identifying pod operating system authoritatively during pod admission time
---

**Authors:** Ravi Gudimetla (Apple)

This blog describes how to identify pod's operating system authoritatively using the `OS` field in the pod spec and how it 
helps in securing the kubernetes clusters while ensuring that the workloads can run smoothly.  

## What problems does this solve?

> Today, the `kube-apiserver` and `kubelet` while admitting pods have no notion of the OS on which the pod can run. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Today, at pod admission time the `kube-apiserver` and `kubelet` have no notion of the OS on which the pod can run. 
```

As a result, the end user of the kubernetes cluster can set Linux specific security constraints onto Windows pods or vice-versa. 
These security constraints are passed on to the underlying container runtime from kubelet and since these security constraints 
are specific to OS, the containers may fail to come up.
This problem worsens if we have admission plugins or webhooks like `PodSecurity` in our kubernetes clusters which adds the
security constraints to the pods based on the security profile we choose.
While the `kubelet` can identify the OS on which it runs and can strip certain security constraints before passing
onto the container runtime, it'd be better to identify the OS early in the life-cycle of pod and use the 
identification mechanism consistently across all kubernetes components including `kubelet`. 
With that in mind, `OS` field has been added to the pod spec in 1.23 release of kubernetes as an 

> alpha feature and it graduated to stable in 1.25.`PodSecurity` admission plugin has been updated to use the `OS` field. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
alpha feature and it graduated to stable in 1.25. In addition, the `PodSecurity` admission plugin has been updated to use the `OS` field. 
```
Or something like that

Mabye a link to the admission plugin?

## How does it work?
A new field called `OS` has been added to the pod spec. Every object in kubernetes is validated before it 
gets persisted to etcd during API admission time, including pod object. Using the `OS` field in pod spec,
we introduced new validation which forbids Linux specific constraints to be set on Windows pods and vice-versa.

The pod security standards `restricted` profile has been updated to ignore the following policies 
- AllowPrivilegeEscalation
- Capabilities
- SeccompProfile
when `pod.Spec.OS.Name` is set to `Windows`

## How do I use it?
By setting `pod.Spec.OS.Name=Windows` or `pod.Spec.OS.Name=Linux`

## How can I learn more?
KEP: https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/2802

> API Changes: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/104693

Reviewer 3: Once https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/ mentions the new field (see https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/35590), please link there.
